             Format rules for plain-text specifications

Abstract

This specification defines syntax rules for authoring plain-text,
"specification" type documents.  The emphasis on content and
producing usefule links for requirements, sections and phrases.

Table of Contents

§1 Introduction

Plain-text documents, eg. RFC series, have a proven track record as
workable specifications.  These documents have been enhanced and
clarified over time by subsequent sepcifications like the [RFC 2119].
Specifications governing software are often written in this format.
There is however no easy way to reference such requirements throught
a body of text.  A test suite could e.g. use the wording of a
requirement verbatim if it fails, but duplicating the text within a
test is not feasible as requirements change over time.  Having a way
to easily index all requirements and reference them elsewhere keeps
the requirements at it's source.  Differentiating changes in plain
text is well defined, making it a powerful way of conveing
requirement changes over time.

§1.1 Requirements

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119].

Requirements are indexed according to [syhoc/v0.4.1].

§2 Format Rules

§2.1 Section Headings

Section headings SHOULD(R1) start with the § sign followed by a level
and a heading.

    "§9.1 Example Heading..."

§2.1 Links to Sections

Links to sections MUST(R2) be written within parentheses.

    "... (§9.1) ..."

Transformed links to sections SHOULD(R3) replace the § sign with the
word 'section'.

    "... (section 9.1) ..."

§2.2 External Links

Within a body of text, external links and their URL make them less
readable.  By separating the phrase that should be linked and the URL
readability is improved.

External link phrase SHOULD(R4) be written within square brackets.

    "... [some phrase] ..."

URL's of external link phrases SHOULD(R5) be defined on separate
lines.  Preferably at the end of a document or section.

    "[some phrase]: https://example.com"

Lines defining URL's for external link phrases MAY(R9) be removed
from the final document.

§2.3 Internal Reference Links

Internal reference links SHOULD(R6) be written within square
brackets.

    "... see [1] ..."

If a internal reference link is a positive integer it refer to a list
of references in the same document.  In this document see (§3).

§2.4 Internal Requirement Links

Within a specification requirements are often related and have plenty
of cross references.  Internal requirement links SHOULD(R13) be
written within square brackets.

   "... see [#R99] ..."

Internal requirement links MUST(R12) reference existing requirement.


[RFC 2119]: https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119
[specification text processor (stp)]: https://github.com/gregoryv/stp
[source of this document]: https://gregoryv.github.io/syhoc/spec.txt
[syhoc/v0.4.1]: https://gregoryv.github.io/syhoc/v0.4.1

