<!--


a basic html header is automatically inserted at the top



-->
<cat logo.txt>




Abstract

Documenting concepts and ideas using plain text documents.  In
particular in software design, specifications need to be concise and
correct.  Preformated RFC like documents are easy to read and many
follow [RFC 2119] for phrasing requirements.  This specification
introduces a few new rules to identify each requirement, making it
easier to reference them while implementing.



Table of Contents

<!--


table of contents is automatically inserted here






-->




§1 Introduction

Documenting concepts and ideas using plain text documents.  In
particular in software design, specifications need to be concise and
correct.  Once a specification is ready for use an implementation
benefits if it can easily reference the requirements in some manner.
A test suite could use the wording of a requirement verbatim if it
fails.  This specification defines a few rules for how to tag
requirements and provides a tool for parsing them out of plain text
documents.

§1.1 Purpose

Specify minimal format rules to plain text documents which enables
developers to use processing tools, like [mkdoc], when producing the
final document.  The final document in this context is a preformatted
HTML file.

§1.2 Requirements

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119] [1].




§2 Format Rules

The rules are meant to aid writers in maintaining focus on their
content.

§2.1 Sections

Sections SHOULD(#R1) start with the § sign followed by a level and a
heading.

    §9.1.5 Example Heading

§2.2 Links


§2.2.1 Links to sections

Section links MUST(#R2) be written within parentheses.

    "... (&sect;2.1)."

Link sections SHOULD(#R3) replace the § sign with the word 'section'.

    "... (§2.1)."


§2.2.2 Links to other URLs

Plain links SHOULD(#R4) be written within square brackets.

    "&lbrack;RFC 2119&rbrack;"

URL's of plain links SHOULD(#R5) be defined on separate lines.
Preferably at the end of a document or section.

    "&lbrack;RFC 2119&rbrack;: https://example.com"

Defined URL lines SHOULD(#R9) be removed from the final document.


§2.2.3 Reference links within a document

Reference links SHOULD(#R6) be written within square brackets.

    "... see [1]."

These links refer to a list of references, most likely found in a
separate section.  In this document see (§3).


§2.2.4 Requirement links

Requirement links SHOULD(#R7) be written within parenthesis and start with
'#R' followed by a number.

    &lpar;#R7&rpar;    

Reuirement links MUST(#R8) be placed directly after one of the
keywords as defined by [RFC 2119].


§3 References

[1] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
    Levels", BCP 14, [RFC 2119], March 1997.



				* * *




§A Appendix

§A.1 Requirements

<list of requirements>








<!-- links are excluded from final output -->

[example.com]: https://example.com
[RFC 2119]: https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119
[mkdoc]: https://github.com/gregoryv/mkdoc
